
= Configuring Ocsimore =

Ocsimore can be configured by providing tags to the extension of Ocsigenserver which loads Ocsimore:
{{{
    <extension findlib-package="ocsimore">
      ...
    </extension>
}}}

== The Database ==

The database connection of Ocsimore (PSQL) is configured by the ##database##-tag
which allows the following optional attributes:

{{{
    <extension findlib-package="ocsimore">
      <database
        name="..."
        user="..."
        host="..."
        port="..."
        socket-dir="..."
        password-file="..." />
      ...
    </extension>
}}}

Default is:

{{{
    <extension findlib-package="ocsimore">
      <database
        name="ocsimore"
        user="ocsimore"
        host="localhost" />
    </extension>
}}}

== The Wiki ==

The Wiki is configured by the ##wiki##-tag. It allows the following attributes:

* ##headings-backref="yes|no"##: If ##yes##, for all headings which have
  an ##id##- attribute, a ¶-symbol is appended to all headings (##h1##,
  ..., ##h6##) which have an ##id##-attribute. The symbol acts as a link to the
  heading.

{{{
  <wiki headings-backref="yes|no" />
}}}

== The Administration Interface ==

Ocsimore's administration interface is configured by the content of
the ##administration##-tag. It allows the following attributes:

 * ##path##: The URL-path where the administration interface is registered to
   Ocsigen.

{{{
  <extension findlib-package="ocsimore">
    <administration
      path="..."
      />
  </extension>
}}}

== The ##mailer##-tag ==

The ##mailer##-tag allows to configure the program to send email (during user
creation). The program is provided by the ##bin##-attribute:

{{{
  <extension findlib-package="ocsimore">
    <mailer bin="..."/>
    ...
  </extension>
}}}

== The ##internationalization##-tag ==

This tag allowes to configure the internationalization of Ocsimore. The language
of Ocsimore messages is set through the attribute ##language##.  Currently
##"english"## or ##"francais"## are allowed.

{{{
  <extension findlib-package="ocsimore">
    <internationalization language="..."/>
    ...
  </extension>
}}}

== The ##internals##-tag ==

Attributes:

 * ##aggregate-css="yes"|"no"##: Allows you to prevent Ocsimore from aggregating
   the CSS files of a wiki into a single request.  The default ##"yes"##.
   (Optional)
 * ##application-name=<name>##: Specifies the name of the Eliom-application.
   The default is ##"ocsimore"##. (Optional)

Undocumented sub-tags:

 * ##group##

{{{
    <extension module="ocsimore.cma">
      <internals
        application-name="..."
        aggregate-css="..."
       />
    </extension>
}}}

= The user module =
